Let's go through these examples.
We'll circle back, it turns out,
it's right here on the screen.
This is the proper endo.
I got a little confused before.
The reason was, if,
we'll circle back afterwards, but
I'll show you why I got confused and
why this works.
So let's go down to our first exercise,
we're gonna turn normal HTML
into the JSX style HTML.
We're gonna cheat on this one.
It's not actually gonna work right but
it's just for example purposes here.
So, we have endo, we have a bunch of
functions from string to string, terrific.
We can rewrite this using endo.
Did anybody have any questions or
snags on this one before I dive in,
I could address while we do it.
All good?
All right, so,
well the first thing we do is
just put these in endos, right?
I can say endo of HTML for,
we'll concat that with
the endo of this one,
and we'll concat that at
the endo of this one, and so on.
And what's happening here?
This is one way, we'll redo it another
way, but we haven't run it yet.
So we have to run it on the HTML and
see if that passes.
It does, terrific.
So it's just capturing function
composition via monoids.
Since the functions always return the same
inputs type and same output type,
we can effortlessly compose the types,
never had a type error.
So we also alternatively say, if we're
gonna throw this on a list, right?
List of, bam.
And also it kind of doesn't
really matter on the full map is.
Kinda ahead of myself sort of,
for map endo,
and we'll give it the endo.empty and
finally run it with the HTML.
How's that?
Didn't work, list is not defined.
Did I prompt, didn't bring in list.
Okay, that's fine.
[LAUGH] We could do it a different way,
we can just throw it in an array and
reduce it.
If we don't have full map at our disposal,
we could just do a reduce, all right?
An acc and an x.
We'll put the x in the endo and
there's a something
reminds us that like a bloodhound
gang line, put the x in the endo.
[LAUGH] l concat that.
So what's happening here?
>> You've given extra parentheses.
>> Yes.
>> Opening one.
>> There it is.
Bam, all right.
And there we go, passes.
So, again,
this is all fold map took away, right?
It's like a one line.
I didn't have to import a library for
that.
I just do because really need
to promote my libraries.
Yeah, I'm just getting it.
It's just what you're gonna see
in other languages all the time.
So I wanted to mimic that.
That's it's really not about the library.
It's about common Interfaces,
so cool, done.
And it turned this thing into this thing.
[LAUGH] And if you notice the order
doesn't really matter, does it?
And that's kind of part of the contract
you're kinda signing up for a little bit.
It is composing them, but it's,
since it's always the same type,
I mean the order tends to not matter,
okay.
Let's go into predicates.
Now, so this,
we're gonna get into some cool stuff here.
We're gonna contra map as we left
off in the last example of reducers.
So let's go ahead and write predicate,
we'll take in a function,
predicate function,
tend to call these run.
And follow the same kind of pattern
we've been doing for expose run.
And what we'll do here is just say,
contra map.
Since predicate is a, it takes a function
that returns a Boolean, right?
So I cannot map it.
I can't turn the Boolean
into another thing.
It wouldn't be a predicate
function anymore.
That would just ruin the whole
idea of modeling predicates.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna contra
map, and give myself an opportunity,
a little hook beforehand
to hit our value coming in,
x with the f, before it actually runs.
So let's see what's happening here.
So we have a contra map,
and we need to concat too.
That's fine.
How do we concat two predicates?
Concat, we take another one.
And, so we have a predicate here.
And we could, sorry,
this is contra map, forgot to run.
So something's wrong here.
I will run the value of that.
Okay, cool.
Do you see how I missed that.
We're gonna hit the f on the x and
transform the value before
we actually run it.
All right, in concat here,
what we're gonna do here is say,
well, if I run this, so it'll give me
a Boolean and we have another one, right?
I don't know why that's passing
[LAUGH] that's probably not good, but
let me do this anyway.
We're gonna say we have some
other one with a run function and
we can just concat that other run.
And I think we have to
decide right now whether or
not we wanna return any or all within
our predicate functions are free.
We just wanna fix one.
Why don't we just say and.
This, did people see how that works?
Basically, if I run my predicate function
is gonna return a true or false.
If I run the other one,
it's gonna return a true or false.
And now I have a predicate function that
tells me they're both true or both false.
I could decide to make it an or.
Or I can actually say no,
it returns me another monoid inside.
And now I concat those two but
we didn't really set this up to do that.
So let's just fix it to and it passes.
It was a little worrying
that it passed this way.
So I probably just wrote a bad example,
but this is what it should look like.
[LAUGH] But yeah,
if you look at the example here,
we're grabbing the length
of x before it gets here.
And then we're asking,
if it starts with s.
So we're transforming each of these into,
all right, looks like,
is that we're asking about the entire
arrays length not each one's length.
Is that why it was wrong?
Well, in any case,
that's predicate looks great.
We can dig in further
into why that passed.
Yeah.
>> Could you just give like the high level
definition of contra map again with the-
>> Yeah, so here's the idea,
is that like, I have this predicate right?
Here, look at this one, right?
I've got this predicate that says,
let's call it greater than four.
And this predicate function
takes a number, right.
And I have this other predicate function
that takes a string, const sStart.
[LAUGH] So it starts with s, okay cool.
So I have two predicate functions.
This one takes a string,
this one takes a number.
And what I wanted to do is
run through my results and
filter all these strings that
satisfy both predicates.
But I don't want to pass a string to
the thing that takes a number, right?
So what I can do is contra map that it,
we transform it into its length.
But I don't want to do
that in the definition.
I can do that at the calling function
when I'm combining the two to say like,
you know what?
I have a hook to be able to
actually change this function and
still pass it into the same filter.
And then that gives me the ability to
write one filter that just kind of
combines all these predicates and
transforms them before they get there.
So that's the specific case, but
the general case is that typically when
you're combining these functions into one,
they might take different arguments and
it gives you a hook to kind of change it.
And this is the use case, right?
Like this is predefined in a library and
I want to use that there.
Did that answer the question or
are you still have some-
>> No no, that's that's pretty clear.
>> Cool.
Just if, we just so we're aware it's
called a contravariant functor if you
have contra map,
contravariant, contra map.
If we have contra map and map,
it's called a profunctor.
You can change the input and the output.
It's kind of like
a little connector thing.
And so profunctors define both,
contravariant functors does one and
just functors or the other just map
We have this little fun graphic.
[LAUGH] If anybody wants to spend a night,
pour yourself stiff drink,
read through that.
But that's there.
It's in the fantasy land figures
if you want to take a look there.
Okay, back to our our example.
So on exercise three,
which is the last exercise.
What we're gonna do here is say,
rewrite using the matchesAny predicate,
so it builds on the previous one.
So if you didn't get the previous one,
this one will be harder.
The idea is that we have matchesAny,
which is just a normal string match and
then we have matching IP,
the predicate version of that.
We just wrapped matchesAny and
put it in a predicate.
So now predicate is a function
which takes, when you call run,
it takes that string.
So you wanna run these with matchesAny IP.
And since we wanna take advantage
of concat and contra map, we can,
kind of give us a hint as to, let's just
give a quick idea of what's happening is.
I'm calling the extension
on the file here, and
I'm calling contents on the file there.
And combine them with and so
let's leave that alone for a second and
just write the same thing
under it with matchesAny IP.
So now that I have that, I can
actually contra map extension, right?
And then I can concat instead of
calling and, with another predicate and
this one takes contents so
I can contra map that one x.contents.
So I guess the file, file the contents and
then we have to run it.
Run it with the file.
See if that passes.
It does not,
probably have a argument syntax error.
There we go.
And almost there,
split of undefined on extension.
So let's see what happened there.
Extension takes the file,
what does extension look like?.
File.name.split, all right.
Each file has a name.
Anybody see any issues?
We're contra mapping the extension
concacting it with this one.
So here I closed the concat and
I'm conra mapping the contents.
If I move this on the outside,
now it should work.
So let's take a look, allow me, just kind
of break this down a little bit to that.
So, are we seeing we
have this function and
then concatenate it with that function,
and then we're running it.
I made a mistake where I can
concated it with that and
then contra map the whole thing.
Because every time I concat two things,
I get a new thing back, right?
This actually has big,
big implications for architecture.
Which is that if you look at
a normal app that's normal,
a typical everyday JavaScript
application or Ruby or Java or
whatever you want to look at, its gonna
have a lot of types and a lot of values.
And you end up with adapters and
type transformations and
a lot of stuff that you have to do
to kind of plug things together.
And yet a lot of pieces they just kind of,
it's this additive flow where you keep
adding new pieces to the system and
then you kind of have to deal with them.
With monoid, you have one piece and
you just combine them into the same piece.
And so you don't need adapters, you just
keep combining and you get one thing back
instead of this composite thing or new
types that kind of latch things together.
So, by normalizing our types into
predicates and saying we're gonna get,
provide a bunch of compasable
predicates and then combine them.
You're not introducing any
new concepts in your system,
you're just continually smashing
it back into one thing.
Okay, yeah, let's take a look
back at my little issue here.
We're just trying to do, let's say,
I wanna provide endo with an empty string.
I was very like, stuck on that, right?
I was like, I,
these are string functions and
I need to do empty endo and
I didn't have empty.
So why wouldn't it work
with an empty string?
Well, it turns out that endo
gets its argument later.
Endo was a function
that when you call run,
that's when it gets its argument, right?
And the identity function, since it's
a function from the same type to
the same type, here it is,
again, identity function.
It's coming in handy, right?
And it says, okay, well,
we'll just take what you started with and
make, effectively make
that the empty value.
So it comes later.
That's where I got little tripped up.
So there, so endo empty is totally fine.
It's holding a function
not an empty string.
So, and then if we look at all this,
it works out just fine if I run
node function modeling zero,
we get this our Hello thing.
I'm gonna talk about this in a second but
yeah, totally works.